content/posts/sketch-to-github.md, before:

---
title: Using Sketch with Git
date: 2020-06-16
published: true
tags: ['sketch', 'software', 'tutorial']
series: false
cover_image: ./images/sketch.png
canonical_url: false
description: ""
---

**Using Sketch with Git** was developed to track changes, handle merge conflicts, and prevent file overrides when sharing Sketch files between multiple people.

This was accomplished through two scripts: one for downloading and another for uploading Sketch files within a single GitHub repository.

**Downloading Sketch Files from GitHub**

This script used a `/sketch` folder inside the repository to build and store Sketch files after download. It would run automatically using Git Hooks for `post-merge` and `post-pull`.

The following workflow was performed:

1. Remove all existing `.sketch` files
1. Export each Sketch directory to a `.zip` file
1. Copy `.zip` file to `.sketch` file
1. Remove `.zip` files

```bash
#!/bin/sh

directory="sketch"
cd $directory/

echo "removing sketch files ..."
rm -rf -- *.sketch

echo "rebuilding sketch files ..."
for file in *
do
  zip_file="${file%.*}"

  # export sketch directory to .zip
  cd $zip_file/
  zip $zip_file.zip -r .

  # copy .zip to .sketch
  cp $zip_file.zip ../$zip_file.sketch

  # remove files no longer needed
  rm -rf $zip_file.zip
  cd ..
done
echo "done!"
```

**Uploading Sketch Files to GitHub**

This script used a `/sketch` folder inside git repository to build and store Sketch files after download. It would run automatically on unstaged files using a Git Hook for `pre-commit`.

The following workflow was performed:

1. Removes modified Sketch directories
1. Copies `.sketch` file to `.zip` file
1. Exports `.zip` file to Sketch directory
1. Removes `.zip` file, preview images, and preview text
1. Prettifies `.json` files in each directory

```bash
#!/bin/sh

directory="sketch"
cd $directory/

echo "checking for modified files ..."
for modified_sketch_file in *.sketch
do
  sketch_file=$(basename $modified_sketch_file .sketch)

  # remove existing file directory
  rm -rf -- $sketch_file/

  # copy .sketch to .zip
  cp $sketch_file.sketch $sketch_file.zip

  # unzip file to directory
  unzip -o $sketch_file.zip -d $sketch_file/

  # remove files no longer needed
  rm -rf $sketch_file.zip
  rm -rf $sketch_file/previews/
  rm -rf $sketch_file/text-previews/
done

echo "cleaning json files ..."
for modified_json_file in /*.json
do
  json_file=${modified_json_file/sketch/.}

  # prettify json files
  python3 -m json.tool --sort-keys "$json_file" "$json_file".pretty
  mv "$json_file".pretty "$json_file"
done
echo "done!"
```

Commit message:

update posts with more information on each project

content/posts/sketch-to-github.md, after:

---
title: Sketch to GitHub
date: 2020-06-17
published: true
tags: ['tutorial', 'software', 'sketch']
series: false
cover_image: ./images/sketch.png
canonical_url: false
description: ""
---

**Sketch to GitHub** was a project I created to apply version control to individual Sketch files. This allowed us to handle merge conflicts and prevent file overrides when sharing files between multiple people.

Version control was added through the use of two custom Bash scripts: one for downloading files from a GitHub repository and another for uploading files to the same repository.

## Downloading Sketch Files

This script used a `/sketch` folder inside the repository to rebuild and store updated Sketch files after download. It ran automatically using Git Hooks for `post-merge` and `post-pull`.

The following workflow was performed:

1. Remove all existing `.sketch` files from folder
1. Export each Sketch directory from repository to its own `.zip` file
1. Convert `.zip` file to `.sketch` file
1. Remove leftover `.zip` files

```bash
#!/bin/sh

directory="sketch"
cd $directory/

echo "removing previous sketch files ..."
rm -rf -- *.sketch

echo "exporting new sketch files ..."
for file in *
do
  zip_file="${file%.*}"

  # export sketch directory to zip file
  cd $zip_file/
  zip $zip_file.zip -r .

  # convert zip file to sketch file
  cp $zip_file.zip ../$zip_file.sketch

  # remove files no longer needed
  rm -rf $zip_file.zip
  cd ..
done

echo "done!"
```

## Uploading Sketch Files

This script used a `/sketch` folder inside the repository to prepare Sketch files for version control prior to upload. It would run automatically on unstaged files using a Git Hook for `pre-commit`.

The following workflow was performed:

1. Check for modified `.sketch` files and remove their associated Sketch directory
1. Convert modified `.sketch` file to `.zip` file
1. Export `.zip` file to Sketch directory
1. Remove leftover `.zip` files, images previews, and text previews
1. Prettify `.json` files for better version control

```bash
#!/bin/sh

directory="sketch"
cd $directory/

echo "checking for modified sketch files ..."
for modified_sketch_file in *.sketch
do
  sketch_file=$(basename $modified_sketch_file .sketch)

  # remove associated file directories
  rm -rf -- $sketch_file/

  # convert sketch file to .zip file
  cp $sketch_file.sketch $sketch_file.zip

  # export zip file to Sketch directory
  unzip -o $sketch_file.zip -d $sketch_file/

  # remove files no longer needed
  rm -rf $sketch_file.zip
  rm -rf $sketch_file/previews/
  rm -rf $sketch_file/text-previews/
done

echo "cleaning up json files ..."
for modified_json_file in /*.json
do
  json_file=${modified_json_file/sketch/.}

  # prettify json files
  python3 -m json.tool --sort-keys "$json_file" "$json_file".pretty
  mv "$json_file".pretty "$json_file"
done

echo "done!"
```
